Make April 2025 newsletter public (#30422)
idaholab/moose: modules/doc/content/newsletter/2025/2025_04.md

## MOOSE Improvements

### MFEM backend support

> MOOSE now has base support for finite element computations using [MFEM](mfem.org). This support was developed by the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA) originally as part of their Platypus application, but that support has now been merged upstream into MOOSE. Those wishing to get familiar with use of the MFEM backend can look at [test cases](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/tree/next/test/tests/mfem) as well as the class documentation under the MFEM header on our [source index page](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/source/index.html).

Author: ```suggestion
MOOSE now has base support for finite element computations using [MFEM](mfem.org). This support was developed by the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA), originally as part of their [Platypus application](https://github.com/aurora-multiphysics/platypus), but that support has now been merged upstream into MOOSE. Those wishing to get familiar with use of the MFEM backend can look at [test cases](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/tree/next/test/tests/mfem) as well as the class documentation under the MFEM header on our [source index page](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/source/index.html).
```

One grammar tweak, and I think it's good to add a link to their original application for both full attribution and context.

### Navier Stokes

Users may now specify separator sidesets on variables. These separator sidesets are boundaries that
prevent flow, and decouple equations between the two sides of the boundary. This is helpful for coarse
mesh multi-dimensional thermal hydraulic simulations.

The [DittusBoelterFunctorMaterial.md] was added to compute the Dittus Boelter correlation for the wall
heat transfer coefficient.

### Porous flow

Spatially varying initial properties were added to the Kozeny Carman materials. This will serve to model
ground fractures with spatially varying apertures.

### Subchannel

Examples in the subchannel module were re-sorted into three categories:

- verification for inputs comparing subchannel simulations to analytical solutions or simulations using
  other subchannel codes,
- validation for inputs of simulations compared to experimental data, and
- examples for inputs that simply feature useful techniques used in subchannel, outside of any V&V
  effort.

### Reactor

The [HexagonalGridPositions.md] was extended to allow the nesting of another positions object within
the hexagonal grid. This can be used for example to obtain in a single object all the pin positions

> in hexagonal core consisting of multiple hexagonal lattices of pins.

Author: Needed to tweak suggestion to include more lines. Addressed in aac632a.

> ## libMesh-level Changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## LibMesh-level Changes
```

> the hexagonal grid. This can be used for example to obtain in a single object all the pin positions
> in hexagonal core consisting of multiple hexagonal lattices of pins.

Author: ```suggestion
the hexagonal grid. This allows users to obtain all pin positions in a hexagonal core with multiple hexagonal pin lattices within a single object.
```

- Remove phony make code which could trigger multiple netgen builds
- Get metaphysicl config include
- Allow instantiation of `DenseVector::print` with dual numbers

> - CheckpointIO can now handle some of the Mesh caches if needed. MOOSE often skips partitioning when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- CheckpointIO can now handle some of the `Mesh` caches if needed. MOOSE often skips partitioning when
```

>   doing checkpoint restart, so now at the libMesh level we `recalculate_n_partitions()` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  doing checkpoint restart, so now at the libMesh level we can do `recalculate_n_partitions()` and
```
